Here's a quick overview of the organization to give you a head start. The entire gui is in the folder appropriately called "gui". It is a package, and in __init__.py by importing functions and classes into that namespace that provides the gui's api for client use.

There are four components that work together. The bitmapfactory, which generates bitmaps for gui widgets, the command module, which provides functions to control the gui state, a timer manager for events, and the guimanager which is the last component, and that is the logic that binds events to widgets.

Every widget uses bitmaps for every state to be drawn, everything is bitmaps, nothing is rendered on the fly like fonts (and the complex operations of transistors that generation requires instead of just a fast blitter), on object creation the bitmaps are made for the instance and every widget is all bitmaps as much as possible. This is by intent, because that separates the style being drawn from the code that does it. This intent is because I'm going to eventually implement support for gtk2 themes which were really popular back in the day on Linux - there's thousands easily found. Those themes have bitmap graphics, so, the "built-in" theme is my theme, every theme is all bitmaps, and gtk2 theme support will come from loading those themes bitmaps and won't require code changes because all the widgets don't care what the bitmaps look like for what they're doing.

Command is a module and Python is a multi-paradigm language so the command module is procedural. The first time it is imported from anywhere else in any code its namespace is initialized, the variables are in scope in its namespace. This happens only on the first import from anywhere, and from there the state of the variables in the module are persistent when imported from any other code. The purpose of the command module is to extend the Python language with gui-oriented names without having to use object-oriented syntax in your client code using the gui. Command is literally new commands for the language by how it operates.

The timer manager keeps track of durations and performs callbacks when their intervals are reached.

And the guimanager is the logic system, and it is agnostic to what it is drawing as said, and it has, along with the bitmapfactory and the command module, a persistent single-state wherever accessed. This is by singleton for the bitmapfactory and guimanager, and by procedural-paradigm in the command module.
